Conclusion
~~~~~~~~~~

The world's governments should make a conscious and significant effort to hinder the effects of and
protect Antarctica from climate change, as it will not only affect Antarctica, but it will also
leave lasting and adverse effects globally.

Firstly, studying climate change in Antarctica is important as it allows scientists to more
effectively and accurately predict future climate change and events, thereby enabling them to
provide information to policy makers and politicians, benefitting the Earth as a whole.

Moreover, the warming of the Antarctic Peninsula has been changing the landscape and environment of
Antarctica severly. This is be proved by the changing of penguin colonies across Antarctica due to
altered ice formations. Plant colonisation has been increasingly prevalent as perennial snow and
ice covers melt. The Antarctic krill population has been on a long term decline in the Southern
Ocean, due to reduced sea ice cover, caused by global warming. Antarctic glaciers and ice shelves
have been retreating in recent years, some have even split or collapsed completely.

Furthermore, as mentioned before, 80% of the world's freshwater reserves are situated within
Antarctica. Therefore, if they were to wholly melt, global sea levels would rise by approximately
60 metres, which would pose a major and significant threat to the global population. This is
because rising sea levels would completely submerge low-lying islands and archipelagos, such as the
Maldives. Therefore, several hundreds of thousands, maybe even millions, of people would have to
migrate to other countries, known as mass migration, which would be rapidly overcome socially and
economically due to the mass influx of new people, potentially incurring widespread poverty due to
overcrowding. This may also increase the rate of climate change as congestion of cars is one of the
leading causes of increased carbon emissions, which would rapidly become more frequent as more cars
from more people will lead to busier, and by extension more congested, roads.

In conclusion, Antarctica should be one of the primary targets of preservation and protection from
climate change, as otherwise the Earth, as a whole, will be affected severly and adversely, and may
not be able to cope with the lasting impacts of climate events with respect to Antarctica.
